Observability Strategy (#347)
infrawatch/documentation: doc-Service-Telemetry-Framework/modules/proc_configuring-openshift-monitoring.adoc

[id='configuring-openshift-monitoring_{context}']
= Configuring {OpenShift} Monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort}

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure {OpenShift} monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort} so that you can use the existing Prometheus deployment for {ProjectShort} data. This configuration is useful in combination with `observabilityStrategy: none` as an alternative to the community operators. You must add a label to the namespace where {ProjectShort} is deployed, and create ServiceMonitor objects for each Smart Gateway intended to be scraped.

.Procedure
. Edit the namespace object:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc edit namespace service-telemetry
----

. Add the `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label under the `metadata` property:
+
[source,yaml]
----
metadata:
  labels:
    openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"
----

> . Create a ServiceMonitor object for each Smart Gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a ServiceMonitor object for each Smart Gateway:
```

+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
```

apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    app: smart-gateway
  name: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter
  namespace: service-telemetry
spec:
  endpoints:
  - bearerTokenFile: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    interval: 10s
    metricRelabelings:
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: pod
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: namespace
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: instance
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: job
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: publisher
    port: prom-https
    scheme: https
    tlsConfig:
      caFile: /etc/prometheus/configmaps/serving-certs-ca-bundle/service-ca.crt
      serverName: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter.service-telemetry.svc
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
    - service-telemetry
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: smart-gateway
      smart-gateway: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter
EOF
); done
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-ceil-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-coll-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-sens-meter configured
----

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

. Verify the successful configuration of {OpenShift} Monitoring by checking that Smart Gateway metrics appear in Prometheus.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> . Find the route for the openshift-monitoring prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Retrieve the route for the openshift-monitoring prometheus:
```

+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash,option="nowrap"]
```

----
$ oc get route -n openshift-monitoring prometheus-k8s
NAME             HOST/PORT                                              PATH   SERVICES         PORT   TERMINATION          WILDCARD
prometheus-k8s   prometheus-k8s-openshift-monitoring.apps.infra.watch          prometheus-k8s   web    reencrypt/Redirect   None
----

> . Visit the host in your browser and log in with Openshift credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Visit the host in your browser and log in with Openshift credentials
```

> . Verify that the following targets are visible under the `Status -> Targets` tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Verify that the following targets are visible under the `Status -> Targets` tab:
```

** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-ceil-meter/0
** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-coll-meter/0
** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-sens-meter/0
** Any problems with the configuration should be evident on this page

> . Issue the following queries on the `Graph` tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Issue the following queries on the `Graph` tab:
```

** `sg_total_collectd_metric_decode_count`
** `sg_total_ceilometer_metric_decode_count`
** `sg_total_sensubility_metric_decode_count`

> . There should be one results from each Smart Gateway, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. There should be one results from each Smart Gateway, like:
```

+
[NOTE]

> If the values returned are 0 it means that {ProjectShort} is not receiving those sort of metrics yet, but as long as a result is returned, the configuration of Openshift Monitoring is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the values returned are 0 it means that {ProjectShort} is not receiving those sort of metrics yet, but as long as a result is returned, the configuration of {OpenShift} Monitoring is correct.
```

Author: I don't know that we want this one? The thing we're configuring is literally called "openshift-monitoring", never "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Monitoring"

Reviewer: Maybe change it to `openshift-monitoring` then when you want to call out `OpenShift Monitoring`. I don't believe "OpenShift Monitoring" is technically a thing (from a naming/product perspective)

[id='configuring-openshift-monitoring_{context}']

> = Configuring Openshift Monitoring to consume metrics from STF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring {OpenShift} Monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort}
```

[role="_abstract"]

> It is possible to configure Openshift Monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort} in order to use the existing Prometheus deployment for {ProjectShort} data. This is particularly useful in combination with `observabilityStrategy: none` as an alternative to the community operators. Configuration requires the addition of a label on the namespace where {ProjectShort} is deployed, and ServiceMonitor objects for each Smart Gateway that is to be scraped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to configure {OpenShift} Monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort} in order to use the existing Prometheus deployment for {ProjectShort} data. This is particularly useful in combination with `observabilityStrategy: none` as an alternative to the community operators. Configuration requires the addition of a label on the namespace where {ProjectShort} is deployed, and ServiceMonitor objects for each Smart Gateway intended to be scraped.
```

> It is possible to configure {OpenShift} Monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort} in order to use the existing Prometheus deployment for {ProjectShort} data. This is particularly useful in combination with `observabilityStrategy: none` as an alternative to the community operators. Configuration requires the addition of a label on the namespace where {ProjectShort} is deployed, and ServiceMonitor objects for each Smart Gateway intended to be scraped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to configure {OpenShift} monitoring to consume metrics from {ProjectShort} so that you can use the existing Prometheus deployment for {ProjectShort} data. This configuration is useful in combination with `observabilityStrategy: none` as an alternative to the community operators. You must add a label to the namespace where {ProjectShort} is deployed, and ServiceMonitor objects for each Smart Gateway intended to be scraped.
```
Last sentence is still awkward. Do you also add the label to the ServiceMonitor objects?

apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    app: smart-gateway
  name: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter
  namespace: service-telemetry
spec:
  endpoints:
  - bearerTokenFile: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    interval: 10s
    metricRelabelings:
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: pod
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: namespace
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: instance
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: job
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: publisher
    port: prom-https
    scheme: https
    tlsConfig:
      caFile: /etc/prometheus/configmaps/serving-certs-ca-bundle/service-ca.crt
      serverName: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter.service-telemetry.svc
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
    - service-telemetry
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: smart-gateway
      smart-gateway: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter
EOF
); done
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-ceil-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-coll-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-sens-meter configured
----

> .Verification

Reviewer: I was looking for this very thing today, but it seems we've either removed it or not been using this.

Other modules just go right to adding a `. To verify the ...` line and then jump into the verification.

Reviewer 2: Typically, if you're verifying one thing or using one step to verify something, then I include the Verification as part of the step. If the verification is more than one step, then the sub heading as shown above is what I use. In this case, it looks like it's a two step verification, is that right?

Reviewer: I think all of those were removed in The Great Review of 2021. There is only a single use of `.Verification` in all of our documentation.

> You can verify the successful configuration of Openshift Monitoring by checking that Smart Gateway metrics appear in prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify the successful configuration of {OpenShift} Monitoring by checking that Smart Gateway metrics appear in Prometheus.
```

prometheus-k8s   prometheus-k8s-openshift-monitoring.apps.infra.watch          prometheus-k8s   web    reencrypt/Redirect   None
----
. Visit the host in your browser and log in with Openshift credentials
. Verify that the following targets are visible under the `Status -> Targets` tab:
** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-ceil-meter/0
** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-coll-meter/0
** service-telemetry/default-cloud1-sens-meter/0
** Any problems with the configuration should be evident on this page
. Issue the following queries on the `Graph` tab:
** `sg_total_collectd_metric_decode_count`
** `sg_total_ceilometer_metric_decode_count`
** `sg_total_sensubility_metric_decode_count`
. There should be one results from each Smart Gateway, like:
** `sg_total_collectd_metric_decode_count{container="sg-core", endpoint="prom-https", service="default-cloud1-coll-meter", source="SG"}`
** `sg_total_ceilometer_metric_decode_count{container="sg-core", endpoint="prom-https", service="default-cloud1-ceil-meter", source="SG"}`
** `sg_total_sensubility_metric_decode_count{container="sg-core", endpoint="prom-https", service="default-cloud1-sens-meter", source="SG"}`

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: I like trying to put these above the output so the reader has an idea of things to look for before scrolling down. You can add this by adding `+` above and below the note to keep the bullet together as a single instance.

spec:
  endpoints:
  - bearerTokenFile: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    interval: 10s
    metricRelabelings:
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: pod
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: namespace
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: instance
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: job
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: publisher
    port: prom-https
    scheme: https
    tlsConfig:
      caFile: /etc/prometheus/configmaps/serving-certs-ca-bundle/service-ca.crt
      serverName: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter.service-telemetry.svc
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
    - service-telemetry
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: smart-gateway
      smart-gateway: default-cloud1-<<COLLECTOR_TYPE>>-meter
EOF
); done
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-ceil-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-coll-meter configured
servicemonitor.monitoring.coreos.com/default-cloud1-sens-meter configured
----
. Verify the successful configuration of openshift-monitoring by checking that Smart Gateway metrics appear in Prometheus.
. Retrieve the route for the openshift-monitoring prometheus:
+

> [source,bash,option="nowrap"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
```

> [source,bash,option="nowrap"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
```
